This paper focused on privacy issue and proposed a framework to mitigate the privacy preserving in the cloud digital storage area, with a novel onion and garlic privacy preserving cohesive approach to prevent the data loss.
Virtualization management , author et al a SVIP based mechanism for SIP dependent system and its security measures are handled.
1 It encrypts multiple messages together to make it more difficult for attackers to interrupt.
Each layer of OGPPA would also perform certain time variation of the request and send to next layer.
The current information dispensation conceded slightest relationship and input circumstances.
, a testbed and an evaluation criteria for a distributed web service environment for the service suitability.
Allocating storage properly e)
Network knowledge to configure hosts properly.
Government and private sector are concerned about the anonymous user access to confidential data by unknown hackers.
Virtual swarm is ensuing cohesion with provider and user.
If and only if no one else knows even something regarding your personal data, it may climb to be information privacy.
Messages are repeatedly encrypted and then sent through several network nodes called onion routing f)
 Cloud computing is taking forward the technological advancement at smart phone door steps and holding hands with other cloud supporting devices.
The limitation of data attackers generally overcomes to preserve better utilization of authorized user data.
It is noted to be less cost effective process for implementing in many field whereever privacy is necessity.
Enormous development in the cloud increases the risk factor simultaneously for user information stored in it.
It should be possible for every individual to hide their data and communication details as a log file.
It also transfers the user data only to original users against all attacks and hackings.
To illustrate the scientific structure for normal systems are not adequate more over a perfunctory approach for preserving confidential data.
Why the social networking providers need of user personal information, literally they are utilizing it for business and making confidential data into profit..