As we noted, the ethics and values that must be followed during the design, development, and implementation of AI are the general principles that are reiterated in the chapters.
Certification systems administered by independent agencies can promote transparency.
5) 6) • • • • • • 3) Data Agency: To maintain people's ability to control their identity, AI creators must teach people how to access and share data securely.
The Internet of Things has made smart cities, smart homes, pollution control, energy saving, smart transportation, and smart industries smarter and smarter.
Still, other questions may be relevant to ongoing Internet of Things and Artificial Intelligence projects.
The population's quality of life is often an objective in IoT initiatives.
The launch of OpenAI ChatGPT has not been discussed with society before, causing senseless fear in society and directly affecting education and professional careers.
The increasing use of AI will significantly change humanity.
Furthermore, they must be designed to protect natural resources and our environment.
Additionally, ensure that operators have the necessary skills before starting to operate a system.
The IEEE EAD guide (conceptual framework) has three pillars that reflect anthropological, political, and technical aspects.
Well-being seeks answers to how AI impacts human wellbeing by assessing, understanding, measuring, observing, protecting, and improving.
Accountability: AI must be developed and implemented to provide an unambiguous basis for all choices.
Finally, it is possible to identify the most pressing "issues" and "recommendations" related to AI design using the process outlined by IEEE EAD.
Human Rights: Human rights will be respected and protected through the creation and operation of AI, which is recognized internationally.
The policy demonstrates that well-functioning AI policies benefit the public interest on several significant issues.
7) Awareness of Misuse: AI creators must protect themselves against any potential risks and prevent AI from being misused.
Entities operating the Internet of Things (IoT) must establish documented regulations to regulate how the IoT should be managed..