Then, to show the utilization of the extended approach, we have considered a real-world example of conflicting policies which shows how our extended solution can be used to resolve the conflict with three different privacy languages: P2U, XACML and S4P.
As a future work, we intend to develop each stage of the approach, in particular the bargaining stage which constitutes a crucial step towards resolving conflicting privacy/ preferences policies in mobile health-Cloud.
CP says CP will save medical data for at least 1 year.
In , the policy contract is established using OrBAC.
It is worth noting that in urgent situations when patient's life may be in danger.
More interestingly, since Cloud-based mhealth apps are more and more popular among patients and most healthcare providers are switching to Cloud computing, it becomes necessary to consider this paradigm in recent privacy-preserving solutions.
Section 4 describes our approach illustrated by a case study presented in Section 5.
These policies must be made available to customers, and be understandable.
TTP detects a conflict among Po.1 and Po.3 and check if the patient can be involved in the negotiation process (otherwise TTP is responsible for negotiation).
This step has two main objectives: First, it indicates the degree of negotiation required.
Thus, formal languages to express their privacy preferences are needed.
As mentioned before, the trusted third party can recognize and "understand" numerous privacy policies.
The entity to whom the policy was addressed.
A subgroup of the DATA-GROUP group.
The time period (days) for which data can be retained.
In fact, it extends our previous patient-centric solution entitled Privacy-Preserving Approach for Mobile Healthcare (PPAMH).
These policies should also allow customer (patient in our case) to have a maximum control over the data and processing.
Some research works have considered negotiation during the development of their solutions.
Furthermore, the m-Health systems offer innovative abilities, such as, indoor senior residents monitoring, outdoor monitoring and emergency rescue, which may have been very difficult to conduct in the past.
Therefore, since Alain is an active actor he received the Cloud demand to save his data longer for statistical purpose.
We consider the three following participants: 1).