Based on powerful computing and storage functions of central servers, it can satisfy processing and analysis requirements for a large number of heterogeneous data generated by the industrial IoT.
Similar to the traditional architecture of cloud computing, cloud based industrial IoT can be divided into three layers as shown in Figure 1, including an infrastructure layer, a platform layer, and a software from network facilities according to forwarding rules.
The second one is different connected devices.
Then, the authors of presented a deep packet filtering protocol with privacy protection.
The remaining of this paper is organized as follows.
If we continue to upload gathered data to cloud servers, the time cost is relatively long and even causes major accidents.
In this case, it can effectively avoid the risk therefore, it cannot handle numerous new demands such as virtual local area networks, end-to-end quality-of-service (QoS), and load balancing.
The general IoT is a human-centric system with the capability of increasing perception and response to surroundings.
An SDN controller can achieve data flow management and service orchestration.
This layer corresponds to various application scenarios.
For the edgebased industrial IoT architecture, the authors used an irreversible elliptic random obfuscation function algorithm in to ensure that a node can enjoy location-based services without leaking the original location to an Internet service provider.
This scheme designed a feature learning model to protect location privacy in an edge server.
In Table III and Table IV, we provide performance comparison of privacy protection algorithms for the above system architectures, respectively.
These the technical standards may well satisfy related requirements of a communication system in an industrial field.
We summarize existing architectures of industrial IoT, including the cloud paradigm, the edge paradigm.
This method aims to solve the problem of cooperative computing with privacy protection between a group of distrusting parties.
Although a general IoT system and an industrial IoT system have many common technologies, such as cloud platforms, network connections, and machine-to-machine communication, they still have different characteristics.
As a result, we can understand clearly the advantages and disadvantages of each method.
The joint of both provides the ability to solve heterogeneity of industrial IoT systems.
Using this method, disclosure risk of sensitive data can be within a certain tolerance range.
In 5G-enabled industrial IoT, the widely existing sensors are gathering data of production or manufacturing execution at all times..