Because technology is the cause of the enhanced human power which is necessitating the transformation of ethics, those people who are involved with the generation of this technology have a special responsibility to create that technology in such a way that it can be controlled and used for good, and not for ill.
Second, STE practitioners should become more professionalized.
actually doing things (like technical skills are trained) I propose a three-pronged approach this question.
Human activity most likely triggered a massive mud-volcano in Indonesia.
-and not only by theoretical classroom discussions.
Humanity must broaden its ethical concern as it has broadened its power.
Training morally good STE professionals requires practical experience and mentorship.
In other words, casuistry has a long historical relationship with virtue ethics.
These threats can be helpfully analyzed using the risk equation: risk = harm x probability.
Once again, we face the questions of global catastrophic and existential risks.
This objection is wrongheaded.
Which path we choose is up to us.
-we become dangers to ourselves (weapons, pollution, etc.) Thus, STE need to consider constraining themselves -not to prevent innovation, but to safely manage it, especially with dual-use research and technologies.
Here taking the broad perspective, as Jonas does, may help to get past the limitations in our current efforts to solve global problems.
Given this fact of education, it could be of some benefit to discuss how casuistry works as an ethical method, and how it serves to teach.
engineers are charged with protecting the "health, safety, and welfare" of the public.
The "management made me do it" excuse (akin to the military "I was just following orders" excuse, which is also morally and legally unacceptable) has before and will again sully the reputation of STE unless actions are taken.
The professionals who work on these projects have recently become acutely aware of this fact, and, in addition to the acts of disobedience of Bradley/Chelsea Manning and Edward Snowden, at least one engineer, Bruce Schneier, has issued a call to constrict this chokepoint.
Accepting this charge is the only morally acceptable solution..