The mission of the Center for Standards and Ethics in Artificial Intelligence (CSEAI) is to promote safe, effective, and ethical AI standards through research, outreach, and education in partnership with industry and government.
This work is funded by the NSF under grant CNS-2136961.
The CSEAI's focus on assessing products' sensitivity to AI-guided adversarial attacks further aligns with the subtheme.
By recruiting, training, and mentoring undergraduates, graduate students, and postdocs from diverse backgrounds, the CSEAI will also produce a diverse workforce trained in responsible AI.
Furthermore, the probability that such standards will become recommended practice is very high.
Moreover, the rise of AI-enabled technologies in practically every industry has created a pressing need for socially responsible innovation.
It showcases the center's dedication to responsible, equitable, traceable, and reliable AI.
The CSEAI, www.cseai.center, led by Baylor University, is partnered with Rutgers University and the University of Miami.
The CSEAI is dedicated to promoting ethical AI practices and advancing socially responsible innovation.
We briefly discuss CSEAI's workforce development plan, including mentoring undergraduate and graduate students and providing continuing education for industry professionals.
The center's research in AI protocols, procedures, technologies, and standard readiness, along with its education and outreach initiatives, demonstrates its commitment to society.
The CSEAI's focus on bias mitigation and fairness evaluation metrics aligns with the conference theme from a global perspective.
The CSEAI aims to facilitate the production of standardized, ethical AI products that are safe for users and promote diversity in the field.
By underscoring the importance of socially responsible innovation and ethical standards in AI, we show the CSEAI's aims to protect consumers and increase trust in responsible AI products and services.
The CSEAI's initiatives align with the Ethics in the Global Innovation Helix conference theme by promoting adopting ethical practices in AI.
Various regulatory groups have recently produced critical standards for artificial intelligence (AI) ethics - ; however, the number of standards currently in production is unprecedented.
The CSEAI aims to address this need by advancing research in AI protocols, procedures, and technologies that enable the design, implementation, and adoption of safe, effective, and ethical AI standards.
The CSEAI investigators enable fundamental research on challenges associated with the responsible, equitable, traceable, reliable, and governable development of AI-fueled tech.
It highlights the center's dedication to producing safe, trustworthy AI products and services.
By promoting the adoption of safe, effective, and ethical AI standards in industry and government, the CSEAI is increasing trustworthiness in AI products and services, ultimately benefiting society as a whole..