Although it is at times difficult to discern what, exactly, "combat operations have ended" means in practice, my point is that the focus of USACE, and the kinds of cases I want to highlight, is in the stability phase of the operation where, though still dangerous, is not the same as the operations maneuver units are conducting to shape the battle space.
When the US military plans joint operations3 they follow a doctrine that calls for a phased approach.
These phases are: (I) Deter, (II) Seize Initiative, (III) Dominate, (IV) Stabilize, and (V) Enable Civil Authority.
These Resident Offices, based on the overall geographic distribution of projects, sometimes were further subdivided in project offices (I had a Project Office in Ghazni, for example).
the conflict caused?.
When we use the term "Army Engineer" we therefore have to make a distinctions, more or less along these lines.
First, there were often security concerns that would not cross our minds in the United States.
Engineering ethics courses normally address matters like whistleblowing, state-of-the-art design, issues of public safety, liability and risk assessment, and, more recently, identifying and fighting corruption and the engineering profession's responsibility towards sustainable development.
Tackling the ethical implications of all of military engineering, therefore, would be impossible in this venue.
Under this category our dilemmas about the use of force are informed by principles such as "just cause," "right intention," "proper authority," etc.
The Afghanistan Engineer District (AED), where I spent a year deployed as a Resident Engineer, focuses its construction efforts on projects that support the Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF, which encompasses the Army, Border Patrol, and the Police), but increasingly has taken on general infrastructure projects such as roads and mini-hydroelectric power plants.
Opening the discussion in venues like this one may indeed help.
Just war theory-though some prefer to substitute "theory" with "tradition"-has been around for centuries.
Courses in ethics often fall in one of two categories: they are either theoretical or applied.
Yet perhaps there are examples of situations that do warrant special consideration.
Let us first take the issue of enforcement of safety standards.
The literature that I have been able to review that discusses jus post bellum does not specifically address engineering efforts.
Combat engineering refers to things like building bridges to help maneuver elements reach their objectives, creating obstacles in order to hinder the enemy's movement, and so on.
It therefore appears as though my call to investigate how engineering ethics principles might be revised or mitigated under wartime circumstances applies to so small a group as to be rendered unimportant or uninteresting.
To take another common example, whereas in the United States we are used to seeing bright orange mushroom-looking caps on all exposed rebar, such materials in Afghanistan were just too expensive for an average company to handle without tearing into their profit margins..