His mental model was following a kind of applied approach.
Describe how you would go about developing this tool.
They also find that nearly half of schools do not offer any computing-related ethics course.
The fourth interview was conducted with a biomedical engineer who works as a faculty member at a research university.
For example, a 2023 executive order signed by U.S.
President Biden acknowledges that AI "holds extraordinary potential for both promise and peril" and "Harnessing AI for good and realizing its myriad benefits requires mitigating its substantial risks.
They have previous or current experience translating AI ethics principles into AI systems design.
When the same survey was fielded in early 2023 , results showed 91% of Americans had heard of "AI" and 35% had read or heard a lot about recent AI developments.
TEC supports what Hagendorff calls a "situationsensitive ethical approach" to AI.
for example, propose incorporating AI ethics in machine learning courses by having students identify and discuss ethical issues involved with technical course topics such as logistic regression or neural networks.
You are given the class' online textbook in PDF format to use to fact-check student essays.
Our approach is more deductive than inductive.
These applied ethics disciplines with a much longer history than AI ethics have long grappled with concerns about autonomy , responsibility - , bias , and privacy ,.
The remaining two-autonomy and explicability-were concepts he had given less thought to in his experience.
We developed four case studies we can pilot test, based on the AI systems design projects that this project PI's machine learning capstone class worked on.
You are the lead designer for a new educational technology startup company that aims to develop AI-enabled tools to assist students with their studying and assignments.
As we have shown above, the evidence that AI has, over the course of the past ten years, become a present and impactful facet of daily life is abundant and undeniable.
After the case studies were generated, we drafted a few follow-up questions we would ask during the elicitation process and final conceptualization questions.
But as AI developments have spurred excitement and innovation, so too have the raised considerable concerns among experts as well as the general public.
First, given that existing AI ethics guidelines and standards are largely nonbinding, there is a lack of empirical evidence regarding the extent to which practicing engineers integrate them into their daily work and whether these guidelines effectively influence engineering decisions.
In response, AI ethics researchers have shifted focus to study how 'ethical AI' can be achieved through policy , governance , technical tools , , and learning from real-world examples , ..