Meanwhile, perceived privacy control and perceived effectiveness of privacy policy have no significant impact on information privacy concern in cloud computing environment.
The survey items were adopted from prior studies where a five point-Likert scale was applied for each item.
can be used to provide targeted advertising.
All the data you need is available to you on your iOS, Mac OS, or Windows device.
There is thus a consensus among researchers that risk is vital factors in making any kind of online decisions.
1 shows research model and hypotheses.
The result of multiple regression provides two tables.
Cloud computing technology is one of the newest technologies widely used by consumers globally due to its advantages.
Between the highest and the lowest percentage of respondents there are other categories Email services 26.70%, Google services 21.64% and Data storage services 14.73% respectively.
A total of 340 cases were usable.
For that, we conducted a selfadministered and online questionnaire to be answered by Undergraduate and Postgraduate students from the International Islamic University Malaysia.
Overall, the result of the reliability test was successful; it was agreed upon the lower limit which is 0.7 across all constructs.
Cloud computing technology involves distributed computation on multiple large-scale data sets across a large number of computer nodes.
It is defined by the US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) as "a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g.
networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction".
However, few studies tried to clarify the nature of control in the privacy context.
However, according to Oxford Dictionaries privacy means "The state or condition of being free from being observed or disturbed by other people".
In addition, Apple's cloud service is primarily used for online storage and synchronization of user mail, contacts, calendar, and more.
Overall, risk has been defined as the uncertainty resulting from the potential for a negative outcome and the possibility of another party's opportunistic behaviour that can result in losses for oneself.
According to Gupta (1999) if Significance value is < .01, then the model is significant at 99%.
It is assumed that without this knowledge, a consumer is unable to make a decision as to either disclose personal information or not..