The program uses short stories, computer-based AI activities and multimedia design projects to develop participants' awareness and understanding of AI ethics issues, such as fairness, bias, privacy and transparency.
It was really impactful for me.
Several organizations (e.g., MIT Media Lab, ISTE, AI4All, etc.) have recently developed K-12 curricular materials to address this need [e.g., 7,8].
Sixteen middle school students and 17 high school students participated in the two summer camps; 39 students participated in the ELA classes.
We delivered all programs online, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Many youth interact with AI-powered devices on a daily basis, but despite this frequent interaction, often don't recognize when they're interacting with AI or understand how it works.
Artificial intelligence (AI) tools and technologies are increasingly prevalent in our lives.
As one student stated, "This technology is actually used, like right now, today.
We recruited summer camp participants through an on-campus STEM education partner.
These open education resources are available for educators to use and customize for their own contexts (https://www.colorado.edu/project/imagineai).
Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the NSF.
We designed an interdisciplinary, modular AI ethics curriculum aligned with computer science and English Language Arts (ELA) standards that could be informative and impactful in different learning settings.
The stories, which sparked an emotional connection to the different issues, were complemented by non-fiction texts and videos to ground the experience in current events.
Some stories moved students to action.
Our work thus far suggests that stories can play a powerful role in students' learning, heightening the personal relevance and emotional impact of AI in society.
Students discussed stories with embedded ethical dilemmas, engaged with AI media and simulations, and created digital products to express their stance on an AI ethics issue.
Similarly, CS educators can productively integrate stories to provide a meaningful context for considering the ethics of AI.
It's kind of a reality." In response to Your Own Song, one student took action: "I turned off my suggestions on YouTube because I didn't want it suggesting stuff that I was watching.".