DEVELOPMENT OF AI-ASSISTED RESCUE ROBOTS Based on the resulting relational list of shared values and principles and in an interdisciplinary dialogue with technical developers and end-users we propose an indicator system for the ethical design of AI-assisted rescue robots.
" Value", in this context, refers broadly to states, which are morally desirable or are instrumentally valuable for such desirable states.
Explainability, for example, is a principle that aims at the value of understanding.
One indicator in that case might be "Are uncertainties made transparent throughout the operation?".
Indicators, in turn, point to observable features of the technological system that allow to measure the degree to which the system meets the relevant criteria reliably.
In our systematization, we take action-guiding, normative principles to aim at (or be in accordance with) First, there are various competing AI ethics guidelines and consequently there is a need for a systematic overview of the relevant values that should be considered.
Principles are further specified by criteria.
Principles provide orientation on how to act to reach such a state.
This indicator system will vary with regard to specific forms of AI technology.
A possible observable is: "Yes, information on uncertainties is visualized for the operator of the robot in a map." the values of "justice", "well-being" and "understanding".
To base the ethical development of AI technology on shared values is important, since liberal democracies exhibit a reasonable pluralism concerning comprehensive moral doctrines.
Understanding and explainability have a moral dimension when we think of people affected by AI, that do not have the chance to understand what happens.
Our proposal complements the VCIO model with the category of principles.
Understanding might be regarded as a final value, but is also of instrumental value to other final values, such as justice and its corresponding principles, like accountability.
Their inclusion is necessary, since principles figure prominently in the considered ethics guidelines and allow for a more nuanced structure of the indicator system.
In order to find a solution to the first challenge, we compare prominent AI ethics guidelines - and recent proposals for AI regulation ,.
On this basis, we identify shared values and principles and systematize them.
Suppose, for example, that an AIassisted robot is intended to support the reconnaissance of hazardous substances..