Due to both the significance of finding and pursuing an ikigai for humans as well as the expected disruption of our daily lives by AI and XR, it is argued here that the facilitation of ikigai should be an indispensable part of ethics for AI and XR.
( The main methodology in this regard are statistical time use surveys, which are being conducted periodically in different countries.
Two points have to be highlighted:
• This section is largely speculation.
as Type II systems, "systems with a scientifically plausible ability to act independently, intentionally, deliberately and consciously and to craft explanations." The value alignment problem can be divided in sub-problems such as to agree on common human values, to precisely specify these values in a machineunderstandable way and others.
This could be called AI effect, similar to the observer effect in physics.
In this paper we have provided groundwork, but significant future work can be foreseen:
• Ikigai taish can comprise a variety of activities from small everyday rituals to the pursuit of complex goals.
Therefore, Bostrom et al.
Ziesche and Yampolskiy look in their introductory paper mostly at suffering through perception of qualia of pain.
• New, currently unknown ikigai activities may appear owing to new possibilities through AI and XR.
Yudkowsky and Bostrom described this problem and also pioneered this field ,.
Therefore, lack of freedom of ikigai could be also taken as indicator for perverse instantiation issues.
In this regard we also have to explore likely disruptions by upcoming technologies such as AI and human enhancements, e.g.
through extended reality (XR).
Obviously, other cultures and philosophers have contemplated similar questions and concepts, such as the French "raison d'être" or the Greek "eudaimonia", yet for consistency we use the term ikigai here, which captures what we intend to convey.
Since NPCs could be sentient too and hence could have a moral status, Ziesche and Yampolskiy argue, that policies are required for NPCs towards ethical human enhancement and antispeciesism.
Since ikigai can have diverse manifestations, lists have been developed to assess multidimensional aspects of ikigai instead of merely asking subjects whether they found an ikigai.
Regarding day-to-day activities in XR and enhancement scenarios discussions have so far mostly focused on avoidance of boredom and availability of sufficient novelties for the concerned humans to experience -.
Especially the potential achievement of enduring bliss is often mentioned and motivates research in the field, e.g.
For example, Yampolskiy suggested in this regard the profession of a Universe Designer.
Such deliberations about non-boring activities are relevant, especially for anticipated very long lifetimes owing to enhancements, yet do not address exactly the issue of ikigai..