Key in the seminar is the presentation of reports of very recent real ethical lapses and humorous examples of such lapses found in the public culture, followed by group discussions drawn from an extensive series of mini case scenarios developed by the author that are continually updated.
They can be presented sequentially during discussion.
There is also much gray area.
Some are easily resolved.
Our seminar has three components.
One example is the clever Tom Lehrer satire "Lobachevsky" on how to plagiarize.
Students taking this seminar several times over extended periods see new examples each time.
Knowing these rules is important.
… While not rigorously comprehensive, discussion topics are chosen to represent diverse classes of issues, such as those concerning plagiarism, data collection, authorship, and so on.
We've learned from experience that the truth will come out.
Moreover, several government-funding agencies now require universities receiving grants to ensure that the investigators undergo some (often unspecified) form of ethics training; such university training commonly takes the form of standardized on-line courses and examinations.
Sometimes the best response to such questions is a question asking for more details about the situation.
Applied physics undergraduates participate in a somewhat shortened version of this seminar in either their junior or senior year, as one component of the required junior and senior year course: Professionalism (Confidentiality): While conducting a faculty search, a faculty member sees a confidential recommendation letter for an applicant who is a former student that is uncomplimentary, and thinks it would not be divulging a confidence by suggesting to that former student not to use that letter writer again, because she would not be saying explicitly that the letter was uncomplimentary.
A surprising episode in the less recent "Leave it to Beaver" is occasionally used.
A broad spectrum of key issues in ethics can still be raised, along with how to address them.
They are listed in several broad categories, clustered within general sections; the themes of some synopses span more than one category.
This approach can be straightforwardly modified to include society, industrial and medical ethics.
What is the threshold for pursuing a complaint, either in a formal or more casual manner? It involved the improper and surprising ghostwriting of a school assignment by a usually very upright parent that was so good that it was slated to receive an award, and this itself became a new issue.
When is an issue an ethical one?.