To examine these, we have a section in the faculty survey to understand the context of their institution including the kind of support they experience and their awareness of AI ethics education policies.
For example, when asking about course content, as many potential course topics as possible were specified as a "choose all that apply" item.
RQ#2: Respondents may upload a syllabus.
Our administrator survey was built upon Beever et al.
's institutional epidemiology framework.
Martin and colleagues also suggest examining policy and cultural aspects of faculty perceptions.
While our goal is to have each survey streamlined for completion in 20 minutes or under, we are still completing this review and revision.
More specifically, Hess and Fore's engineering ethics intervention framework emphasizes that the effective design of ethics education interventions relies on a harmonious alignment of content (or curriculum), assessment, and delivery (or pedagogy or instructional strategy).
The first is that the survey may be too liberal: questions which are too general are likely to merely replicate this diversity without meaningful patterns.
Research organizations are spending billions of dollars to develop new and better technologies to achieve these aims.
To avoid an arbitrary classification of institutional sizes, we drew from the National Center of Education Statistics for guidance.
We also want to remain mindful of the larger picture of the project and maintain alignment with funding goals.
This meant there were fewer versions of this survey, and it was written more quickly.
One advantage of this approach would be in facilitating the ease of data analysis following survey distribution.
While there are many important technological questions regarding AI development (such as its capacity, scale, and practical applications), educators also have begun to grapple with a second set of questions of what and how to teach students about AI and its ethical design and use.
Ultimately, this led to a switch to ask about specific courses or course modules.
We also ask how participants see change in the next 2-3 years to get an understanding of how much change is expected to happen.
Furthermore, the extent and mechanisms of their effectiveness or ineffectiveness remain largely unexplored.
Our faculty survey was initially inspired by two existing frameworks in engineering ethics education: AI evangelists promise a new utopia as tasks (first menial, and then complex) are automated, new solutions discovered, greater efficiency found, human shortcomings overcome.
First, using the built-in functionality of Qualtrics, we were able to add a section at the beginning of each series of questions detailing which courses for which a person had already provided answers..