One of the major components of the Cloud Computing is "Security and Privacy".
2: Compliance refers to an organizations' responsibility to operate.
The relevant references concerning Homomorphic encryption have been provided in References.
Similar concerns exist for data migrated within or between clouds.
#4-Identity and Access Management: Solution systems should establish clear & mutually exclusive ownership rights over data.
The cloud has four different deployment models according to users' needs.
Cloud Auditor: Protecting data while in use is an emerging area of cryptography with little practical results to offer, leaving trust mechanisms as the main safeguard.
To provide these requirements the necessary security functions are integrity, confidentiality and, availability.
Conclusion is presented as section 5.
This is related to correctness and completeness issue.
Encrypt the searching data terms and upload them to search engine of cloud service provider-SP.
Threats to network and computing infrastructures continue to increase each year and have a tendency of becoming more sophisticated than ever.
XACML focuses on the mechanism for arriving at authorization decisions, which complements SAML's focus on the means for transferring authentication and authorization decisions between cooperating entities.
Electronic Discovery; involves the identification, collection, processing, analysis, and production of Electronically Stored Information (ESI) in the discovery phase of litigation.
The essential characteristics are rapid elasticity, on demand selfservice, broad network access and resource pooling.
# The capability to adapt cloud consumer privileges and maintain control over access to resources is also needed.
While aspects of these characteristics have been realized to a certain extent, cloud computing remains a work in progress.
The platforms are built on as a stack on each other.
Key generation and storage is usually performed outside the cloud using hardware security modules, which do not scale well to the cloud paradigm.
Data sanitization also applies to backup copies made for recovery and restoration of service and residual data remaining upon termination of service ..