The action plan for future aims to explore the scope of improving the performance of private cloud by adding more nodes to cloud infrastructure and to design and setup a hybrid cloud model for sharing of sensitive data with public cloud for publishing in outside world.
It Compute Node (Server2) Installation
This node runs a hypervisor to create virtual machines.
• • OpenStack is defined as a collection of independently developed software projects, glued together.
Each service has an HTTP REST interface to communicate with OpenStack clients.
presents a systematic clustering method based on k-anonymization technique to minimize the information loss while at the same time assuring data quality.
The legislation regulates health care groups, organizations or businesses, on how to use and disclose privacy critical data.
To address such issues, a privacy rule was established in the United States which constitutes a comprehensive federal protection for individual's medical records and is known as Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).
Beyond API processes, some services like Cinder, Glance, and Horizon have additional processes on the controller node.
Then conclusion and future work are presented.
Nevertheless, these acts are become outdated and inapplicable to the new scenarios, where an entirely different relationship has been evolved between users and providers.
Many anonymization applications already developed in non cloud applications.
Private c l o u d solution is useful for organizations to implement their own privacy policies.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows; Section 3 describes the proposed method.
So here this paper discusses about private cloud implementation using OpenStack software, in which three node architecture is used for implementation.
OpenStack is open source software designed to provision and manages large networks of virtual machines, creating a redundant and scalable private cloud computing environment.
L.Sweeney propose k-anonymity protection model for protecting privacy.
When trying to publish health data, custodians of such data encounter inevitable hurdles in connection with privacy..