However, once the data is encrypted, the server cannot make a plaintext keyword search and it affects the efficient retrieval of data using keyword search from the cloud.
Through this analysis, we present some valuable directions for future work.
Section III discusses about PPKS.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Kennesaw State University.
There are several reports that confirm data breaches related to cloud servers, due to malicious attack, theft or internal errors.
Downloaded on October 13,2025 at 18:43:32 UTC from IEEE Xplore.
Among these compared schemes only two schemes and used multiple data owner system model.
Table 1 summarizes the comparative study of each scheme.
Companies such as Google, IBM, Amazon and Microsoft also provide ways for consumers to consume big data on demand.
As a result, attackers who steal the secret key and perform illegal searches would be easily detected.
Then, map a keyword to a value as an address used to locate the corresponding index vector.
Big Data has rapidly developed into a hot research topic in many areas that attracts attention from academia and industry around the world.
Storing and processing big volumes of data requires scalability, fault tolerance and availability.
Many organization demands efficient solution to store, process, analyze and search huge amount of information.
Cloud computing has become an unavoidable component for data storage due to its unlimited data storage capabilities, easy access and decreased costs.
Users only need a single interaction with the server to get the data files they are interested in.
From our analysis, we observed that evaluation of verifiability was missing except the scheme VPSearch.
proposed a new approach using MIR-tree, it provides privacy of outsourced data, Wan et al.
The authors implement VPSearch using Matlab and evaluate its performance over three UCI data sets.
Trapdoor unlinkability-We should randomize the trapdoors (encrypted keywords) for protecting the privacy of data..