In order to improve data security in the cloud environment, the EAE approach is used in the basic hash function to provide the hash value for encrypted data.
devised a new ABE technique that safeguards user privacy when providing keys.
Encryption, digital signatures, pseudo-random generators, and other applications use elliptic curves.
It provides scalable resources across the internet on a dynamic basis.
Which includes data access, interruption, interception alteration, illegal authentication, and fabrication? Section 5 concludes with a conclusion and recommendations for future work.
Only if the user key's set of attributes matches the properties of cipher text can a cipher text be decrypted.
Focuses on how to create efficient ABE schemes without the usage of a certifying authority using elliptic curve cryptography (ECC) techniques.
proposed a novel key generation and cryptosystem that combines the GCD and LCM between in principal key-value pair and first arithmetic quasi attributes.
Because this new computing technology encourages users to leave their sensitive data to cloud providers, security and privacy issues over outsourced data are growing.
Only at the moment of data uploading has ECC-MA-CPABE fixed the attribute selection.
= 𝑦 3 + 𝑏𝑦 + 𝑐
(1) Elliptic curve attribute cryptography chooses a number 'p' from the range of 'r' for key creation.
PHR allows the authenticated user to view the patient's data.
The ECA encryption is to achieve improved data confidentiality.
For storing cloud data, it is a space-efficient probabilistic data structure.
Using Elliptical Curve Cryptography, which is a powerful and secure methodology for integrating and developing secure cloud applications.
Furthermore, the suggested approach combines time and location features, allowing users to request data within the period and geographical parameters set by the involved parties, resulting in a finer-grained accessibility control process.
Section 4 contains the details of the experiment.
The suggested encryption technique has the following key advantages over other techniques.
The encryption and decryption are carried out using the Elliptic Curve Attribute Encryption/Decryption method and a simple hash function..