It is important to note that the resulting keywords are derived from fields adjacent to TC, of which AI ethics and/or literacy education were already implemented-this is due, in part, to the current, narrow selection of such literature in the field.
only briefly shared their findings.
Consequently, advocating for a new course and its required resources may prove to be inefficient.
Second, the functionalities vary tremendously.
TPC instructors can do the following.
This decision was supported by 1.
This trend has led practitioners to advocate for cross-cultural approaches and practices.
But AI research is more than 50 years old.
Hybrid methods with ethics integrated into traditional assignments or courses have been favored among AI education practitioners.
The 32 articles selected for this study were published between 2017 and 2022.
Such structures are intimidating and discourage instructors seeking to initiate and promote new courses or overall change.
First, AI technology is evolving quickly.
Following Geisler and Swarts, all notes were written under a memo format "to reflect on emerging themes, patterns in the data, potential points of significance in the analysis, problems, and solutions" and to support " … an analytic design, a coding scheme, or an analysis" [11, p.
25].
Our findings show that such discussions must happen at the institutional, course, and instruction levels.
A hermeneutic analysis helped us look at more focused and relevant work.
All categories were mutually exclusive.
A flipped-classroom approach similarly asks students to interact with course materials at home and present their perspectives in class through debate or discussion.
For example, if larger classroom sizes hinder the ability to conduct extensive exercises that utilize complex technological knowledge and implementation in classrooms, administrators can consider how to reallocate other resources to allow smaller teaching loads and smaller class sizes so that instructors can deliver more personalized learning.
As suggested by Boell and Cecez-Kecmanovic, we used analytic readings to distinguish "key concepts, findings, theories and their interpretations" and established an understanding and perspective on the literature For example, Zembylas outlines AI technology and its potential to act as a valid vehicle for coloniality and racism, and suggests a reform or redesign in courses with emphasis on decolonial ethics.
To achieve reliability, we applied the categories to the entire dataset to demonstrate its relevance and applicability..