In a co-op, the owners of the business are the members (potentially workers, users, or other stakeholders), whereas in a traditional company, the owners of the business are the shareholders who often have little to do with the day-to-day operations of the company.
Transparency, and Category 2.C, Knowledge.
What type of cooperative should AI companies adopt? 6) Cooperation among Cooperatives Co-ops help their own sector of co-operatives.
This gives workers more security over their careers.
If the co-operative appears to be violating Principle 3, Democratic Member Control, a member could escalate anywhere from passing a resolution, to mediation, to litigation.
Hao echoes this sentiment by reporting that while fairness guidelines exist at Facebook, they are not enforced, and testing algorithms for specific fairness metrics is optional.
This was a internal deal, hidden from the majority of members, and was orchestrated by a corrupt board.
This also leads to both the gatekeeping and attrition of valuable employees.
MIT Technology Review highlighted that all machine learning algorithms infer from correlations, and that people often make the fallacy of assuming causation from the model's correlations.
Facebook, in an official blog post, has taken responsibility for a New York Times broken story where the social media platform aided the Myanmar genocide through negligent content moderation ,.
It's for this reason that the co-operative structure only partially, but not fully, addresses this issue.
A study comparing co-op housing communities and traditional gated communities found that while racist housing policies may be more explicit in gated communities, there was sentiment among residents in co-op housing of implicit racism.
UC Berkley Associate Professor Rediet Abebe is quoted saying "If a bunch of us are taking money from the same source, there's going to be a communal shift toward work that is serving that funding institution".
This could include anything ranging from the company's balance sheets, to source code.
These are each elaborated upon in turn.
With the increased frequency and public awareness of AI ethics related incidents in the last decade, many multistakeholder initiatives have produced AI ethics principles , toolkits, and guidelines.
Facial recognition software has been routinely shown to have racist and sexist biases as their accuracy on identifying white men is disproportionately higher than any other race or gender ,.
The co-op model also does not have much baring on Theme 3, Consequences of Failure.
We present the co-operative governance structure as a possible mitigating solution to addressing future AI ethics catastrophes, and provide a critical look at practical challenges inherent to AI co-operatives..