The value of a healthcare technology product is enhanced when privacy and security protections are built into the app to ensure that collected information is secured and that the usage of data will only be used and disclosed as approved or expected by the user.
Recommendation #1 Restrictions apply.
Downloaded on October 13,2025 at 18:38:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.
Algorithms change and adapt over time.
XR has potential to revolutionize patient self-care by motivating healthier lifestyle choices.
Communication skills are pivotal to this process.
A society-generated design approach is needed.
3 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5997 USA http://standards.ieee.org Tel.+1732-981-0060 Fax+1732-562-1571 Personal Health Information Protection Act (PHIPA) 
 Section 8 concludes the paper.
AI is available today.
Thank you for your interest in the ethics of Medical XR technology.
Due to the high use of simulations and virtual environments, users develop cybersickness in which they experience motion sickness, eye strain, fatigue, headache, and nausea.
Additionally, it may even influence how people see each other or themselves in the XR environment.
However, considering accessibility as a core part of a system's iterative design process is valuable for all users, since everyone experiences situational disabilities dependent on their context (e.g., a person holding groceries is unable to use their arms for other tasks, a person in a loud room may have difficulty hearing.).
This paper does not take a stand on how freedom of thought is defined, but merely states the potentially dangerous implications of XR technology if used in a corrupt way.
Stanley G.
Weinbaum described in 1935 a fictional model that questions reality for "magic spectacles" that exist as goggles that project a story, sight, sound, smell, and taste for the wearer of the device.
If they hope to ensure AR/VR advances inclusiveness and equity, they should pay attention to voices from vulnerable, marginalized, or otherwise underserved individuals and underrepresented communities in discussions around both policy and product development.
Medical providers do not work in isolation and depend on shared data from other medical providers to ensure that patients receive the best possible treatment.
MR hardware technology extends past Milgram and Kishino original vision of the technology as spatial sound, environmental input including spatial understanding and positional location of the user (X, Y, and Z spatial coordinates) are incorporated in immersive hardware devices.
In addition, XR-based platforms are increasingly being used for neuropsychological assessments as well as assessing efficacy and/or response from ongoing therapies such as for cancer.
IEEE believes the information in this publication is accurate as of its publication date; such information is subject to change without notice..