Based on the choices of the first three levels we setup the scenario of our interest and obtain a list of possible security and privacy issues in level-3 and a list of security attributes in level-4.
 Moreover, Cloud adopters are also capable of obtaining nested services from different service providers.
Some other approaches investigated the security requirement of the CC models but were directed towards a single stakeholder's perspective or a single service that could be offered through the cloud.
The goal is to provide stakeholders with the security issues associated with their interaction with the cloud.
Researchers in academia and industry are striving to propose a security silver bullet.
This will help promote security and privacy among the stakeholders and refute their fears from utilizing this emerging technology.
The strength of this approach resides in its affinity to the stakeholders and its capability to comprehend different scenarios.
Furthermore, laws and regulations diverge in some industries and different locations make it even harder to focus towards providing a unified process to secure the CC model.
For instance (Scenario A) in top part of Figure 1; a user who interacts with Google Docs to create or edit a text document would be traversed on the taxonomy as an end user consumer on a SaaS public cloud.
 Stakeholder-oriented: Stakeholders are the most tangible aspect of the CC model and hence they represent a significant part of the taxonomy.
This is shown in the lower half of the Figure 1.
This increases divergence of stakeholders' authority and control over the multiple service and deployment models.
Inspired from the NIST characteristics of cloud computing , to conform to the standards in the field.
To address the above mentioned issues, in this paper we present a unique approach that is:  These approaches and similar ones have been extensively presented in literature but we are yet to observe their benefits in the real world in terms of security and privacy improvement.
Another interesting utilization of this taxonomy is to enable stakeholders to learn the security concerns of other stakeholders by simply tracing their roles through this taxonomy.
We are presenting a stakeholderoriented taxonomy that structurally enables the comprehension of all the various CC model components and their security aspects.
Taxonomical: this methodological arrangement of features enforces a better understanding of the different use cases of a CC model and facilitates extensions and upgrades on the same in the future.
For examples, this can help the providers can in understanding the security requirements of their consumers..