Having answered our research question on how journalists' perception of privacy and data protection influence their use of AI tools, we recommend that much of the challenges affecting how Nigerian journalists use AI can be addressed by collaborations between the journalists and AI companies.
Where is my place in it? This will act as a failsafe mechanism to address potential risks should this boundary become blurred.
So, if you do not know most of those policies around data, please do not put critical documents for summarization.
The recruitment criteria were clearly delineated and designed to select individuals possessing pertinent experience and expertise in the field.
This study was carried out with approval from Northumbria University Ethics Review Board.
The second school of thought revealed that 54% of Nigerians -based on a survey -rarely or never read consent prompts, while another 37% read them only sometimes.
That's like thinking that when you permanently delete your Facebook account, all your data is actually gone from their servers.
A recent study found that GPT 4 by OpenAI could easily be misled to generate toxic and biased outputs and leak private information.
So I can make decisions from an informed position.
Speaking to the possibilities of journalism focused agentic AI J15 said he will share his data with an AI company in exchange for such capabilities but worried about the execution of the data-for-technology possibilities.
Furthermore, candidates were mandated to have used Artificial Intelligence tools in their professional work within the six months preceding the interview.
Our participants were drawn from small independent newsrooms to global corporations shaping journalism around the world.
While their mental model might be based on less-than-ideal, their decisions are rooted in those perceptions.
More recent research recommends some solutions to address this, including Privacy-preserving Machine Learning (PPML) , which encourages the use of synthetic data, which may not work for generalist LLMs like ChatGPT or Gemini.
Discussing this, J12 said the distinction should be made clear to ensure journalists' private data do not get used by AI.
JournalismAI, a media Think Tank by the London School of Economics and Political Science, recently identified more than 180 case studies of how AI is being used in journalism across the world.
As a result, media houses are turning to AI -not only for its technical affordances -but also for its ability to replace certain job roles within the industry.
The implications of these are diverse for fields like cybersecurity, journalism, law and military technology, where leakage of personal data can have dire consequences.
During the interviews, which lasted an average of 61 minutes per participant, the first author took relevant opportunities to ask more follow-up questions depending on the responses generated by the pre-planned questions..