In part 2 of the activity (implemented in the 2nd quarter of the course), the instructor asked students to revisit the Jamboard they made in the 1st quarter and add more connections between virtues and ethics, especially on virtues that students hadn't connected to ethics previously.
Here is a short summary of two stories we used.
Engineers play a pivotal role in society.
All of these virtues culminate into one integrated virtue -practical wisdom.
This project was reviewed and approved by the university's Institutional Review Board.
Aesop is a Greek story-teller who lived between 620 and 560 B.C.E.
Additionally, virtues exert a positive impact on people's lives through enabling one to engage in virtuous activities, adopt positive coping strategies when facing adversity, and experience positive emotions.
A character approach to engineering ethics offers personal motivation and actionable dimensions to ethical reasoning.
The two courses have one hour of shared lecture per week and each course has six hours of tutorial/team consultation per week.
"The most interesting thing is the virtue mini stories which give a nice break from just engineering work." The first column in Fig.
1 illustrates both of these stories.
Additionally, with the wide use of AI technology, such as ChatGPT, it is even more important to train students to use technology responsibly ,.
Lu Ban taught Ya Zi to be perseverant when learning a new profession by showing him a big box containing Lu Ban's used axes that all had wear and tear because of Lu Ban's hard work ,.
Overall, our approach helps students make the important connection between being a virtuous person and being an ethical engineer.
"Enjoyed ethics stories." For the longer ethics quiz, we used a validated instrument published in the literature, the Engineering and Science Issues Test (ESIT).
" Students also added additional virtues and code of ethics.
Preliminary results suggest that students are quite engaged and interested in the teaching modules we developed.
Furthermore, current engineering ethics training focuses on technical ethics, not focusing on the development of the whole person.
When implementing the Virtue-of-the-Week modules, the instructor first gave a brief background about the story, then told the story and included key information and figures on PowerPoint slides..