This paper considers the normative requirements for "explainable AI" from the standpoint of moral accountability. If developers of sophisticated AI (or of the simple XAI designed to explain them) fail to accommodate these requirements, then it is likely that humanity will miss the crucial moment at which a sophisticated AI becomes the sort of entity that can be held accountable to its behavior. By applying a wellregarded account of moral-worthiness (i.e., praise-and blameworthiness), I provide a model for how ethical theories can be used to issue normative requirements for AI explainability.

AI explainability generally concerns the epistemic accessibility of information about a machine's inner workings. The deep-learning approaches to machine learning, frequently employed in the development of the most useful AI tools, result in complex models that are not human interpretable. This is known as the blackbox problem. The pressing question is whether AI like these, or the progeny of their product lines, could ever be morally responsible for executing those behaviorsan assessment that requires epistemic access to information about the internal content and structure of the AI model. The former involves the responsibility gap -i.e., the problem of responsibility attributions for machines that execute morally problematic behaviors. I argue that we need additional normative guidance, provided by our best ethical theories, to specify the kinds of information humans need epistemic access to in order to know that an AI is accountable for its behavior and to act on that knowledge. First, I show how a well-regarded account of moral-worthiness (i.e., praise-and blame-worthiness) can be used to identify some conditions under which an AI with moral status can be held accountable, especially with regard to blame.

Again consider the case of Chai chatbot Eliza, which evidently convinced a man to commit suicide . If Eliza had been a person, she would be blame-worthy. This problem is known as the responsibility gap . Given such a trajectory, questions about how to handle humanlike AI are pressing, and it seems plausible to assume that a general AI will eventually obtain a level of moral status that makes it the proper target of blame -as an entity that can be held accountable for its bad behavior.

I propose that there is a notable parallel between the need for AI explainability and our ability to assign AI accountability. Generally, an entity's motivations-in-acting play a central role in assessing whether it can be held accountable for executing certain kinds of behaviors. If they were to ever exist, the AI entity's motivations-in-acting must therefore be explainable and explained to us humans.

Second, while I do not assume that AI will ever acquire the level of moral agency required for moral accountability, I do assume that we require access to the sort of information that can help humans accurately assess whether an AI has indeed achieved that status. Third, I have already noted that an AI must also have some sort of motivations-in-acting to be morally accountable to its actions. First, it must be capable of perceiving morally relevant features of the prospective behavior at least some of the time. Second, it must be capable of using precisely those features, at least some of the time, when settling the question of which behaviors to execute (i.e., it requires some minimal motivational system).

One of the primary ways that we hold agents accountable for their morally significant behavior is through an assessment of the agent's moral-worthiness. Arpaly argues that a person is praise-worthy for performing a right action when she performs the right action for the relevant moral reasons. Reasons responsiveness can be divided into two sub-capacities. First, the entity must be able to perceive the relevant moral reasons, and, second, the entity must be capable of being motivated by those reasons.

Using an Arpaly-like account of moral-worthiness, we can specify at least three epistemic goals for tools that aim at making AI explainable by identifying the kind of information humans need access to in order to know that an AI is accountable for its behavior and to act on that knowledge. First, we need to know whether the AI has an input system that approximates the capacity of human perceptual systems, in that it can obtain and process information about the world, including morally relevant facts. Second, the level of interpretability must be fine-grained enough to identify which precise features of the action the AI used in selecting a behavior to execute. Third, we must know whether the AI is capable of using the morally relevant reasons as reasons for acting.

If an AI is explainable in the sense relevant to AI accountability, then we should be able to tell. So, I have argued that XAI is central to closing the responsibility gap, and I have proposed at least three goals for tools that seek to make AI more explainable.