**Executive Summary**

The Center for Standards and Ethics in Artificial Intelligence (CSEAI), a multi-institution initiative led by Baylor University in partnership with Rutgers University and the University of Miami and funded by the NSF, is dedicated to bridging the divide between industry, government, and academia to promote socially responsible innovation. The core mission of the CSEAI is to advance research in AI protocols, procedures, and technologies that enable the design, implementation, and adoption of safe, effective, and ethical AI standards. This effort is critical due to the pressing need for socially responsible innovation driven by the rise of AI-enabled technologies across every industry, coupled with an unprecedented volume of critical AI ethics standards recently produced by various regulatory groups. The CSEAI aims to address this need by producing standardized, ethical AI products that are safe for users and promote diversity in the field.

The center’s commitment focuses on promoting ethical AI practices and ensuring the responsible, equitable, traceable, reliable, and governable development of AI-fueled technologies. Specifically, CSEAI investigators enable fundamental research on key challenges, with initiatives aligning with global perspectives on ethics, including a sharp focus on bias mitigation and the development of fairness evaluation metrics. Furthermore, the center demonstrates its dedication to producing safe and trustworthy AI products and services by assessing products’ sensitivity to AI-guided adversarial attacks, ensuring reliability and effectiveness in real-world contexts.

A critical component of the CSEAI’s strategy is its workforce development plan, which is designed to produce a diverse workforce trained in responsible and standardized AI practices through the recruiting, training, and mentoring of undergraduates, graduate students, and postdocs, alongside providing continuing education for industry professionals. Through extensive education and outreach initiatives, the CSEAI promotes the adoption of safe, effective, and ethical AI standards in both industry and government. This comprehensive approach is dedicated to advancing socially responsible innovation and increasing trustworthiness in AI products and services, making it highly probable that the standards championed by the CSEAI will become recommended practice, ultimately benefiting society as a whole.