**Executive Summary**

This paper addresses the significant privacy and confidentiality challenges arising from the adoption of cloud computing, a rising technology defined by NIST as a model enabling convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources. The objective of the research is to identify major privacy issues and design an efficient framework tailored to address these concerns, particularly because the secure processing of personal data in the cloud is a huge challenge, and the concept of privacy varies widely among countries and jurisdictions, which have conceived numerous data protection regulations. The shift in the way data is managed on the cloud leads to concerns such as the risk of unauthorized access due to storing data on different locations, and questions regarding whether data is stored locally or on foreign land. Offending and violation of privacy not only affects users but also the cloud service provider because it maculates their credibility with customers.

The analysis extracted fundamental privacy principles from existing policy frameworks, focusing on issues related to compliance, which indicates the applicable laws, regulations, standards, and contractual commitments governing cloud computing data. These principles emphasize that data collection should be lawful and fair, and providers must ensure the complete deletion of personal data at the end of the retention period so it is destroyed and unavailable to another cloud user. The paper notes that cloud computing utilizes four deployment models, including the Private Cloud, where infrastructure is used exclusively by a single organization. To mitigate infractions or breaches of data by eavesdroppers, the cloud provider should establish transparent policies that customers can easily understand, a practice with which many major cloud providers like Google, Amazon, and HP already comply.

This exploration of privacy concerns serves to benefit all communities linked with cloud computing by helping cloud service providers serve customers better and potentially sparking ideas that may lead to the development or improvement of existing privacy regulations. Future research is focused on developing new frameworks by combining the perspectives of all covered frameworks. For these future frameworks, particularly those made with a user's perspective, the concept of transparency will be prioritized, and the resulting level of privacy will depend upon the level of transparency offered by the service provider.