**Executive Summary**

This paper addresses the major ethical challenges inherent in the practical development of AI technology by tackling the proliferation of competing AI ethics guidelines, necessitating a systematic overview of relevant values that should be considered. To find a solution to this challenge, the research compares prominent AI ethics guidelines and recent regulatory proposals to identify and systematize shared values and principles. The need to base the ethical development of AI technology on these shared values is crucial, as liberal democracies exhibit a reasonable pluralism concerning comprehensive moral doctrines, making universal agreement on abstract principles difficult. In this systematization, action-guiding normative principles are taken to aim at the values of "justice," "well-being," and "understanding," where value broadly refers to states that are morally desirable or instrumentally valuable for such states.

The central contribution of this work is the proposal of a measurable indicator system for the ethical design of AI-assisted rescue robots, developed through an interdisciplinary dialogue with technical developers and end-users. In this structure, principles provide orientation on how to act to reach a desired state, and are further specified by criteria. This systematic approach complements the existing Value-Criteria-Indicator-Observable (VCIO) model by introducing the category of principles, which figure prominently in the considered ethics guidelines and allow for a more nuanced structure of the indicator system. Understanding, for instance, might be regarded as a final value, but is also of instrumental value to other final values, such as justice and its corresponding principles, like accountability.

The indicator system functions by utilizing indicators that point to observable features of the technological system, allowing the measurement of the degree to which the system reliably meets relevant criteria. For example, explainability is a principle that aims at the value of understanding, particularly critical when people affected by the AI do not have the chance to understand what is happening. If an AI-assisted robot is supporting reconnaissance of hazardous substances, one corresponding indicator might be, "Are uncertainties made transparent throughout the operation?", with a possible observable being, "Yes, information on uncertainties is visualized for the operator of the robot in a map." The resulting indicator system will necessarily vary with regard to specific forms of AI technology, providing a structured yet flexible framework for implementing ethics into the development process.