Executive Summary

Since the emergence of Artificial intelligence (AI), there are many different interpretations, assumptions, and expectations about what constitutes "ethical AI," despite a common expectation that AI should be ethical. Even though many private companies and research institutions have highlighted present and possible future problems and guidelines associated with AI ethics, relevant public visions regarding how "ethical AI" can be constituted have not been explored sufficiently. For obtaining public opinions, traditional methods like questionnaires are often limited because the questions are designed based only on the researchers' preferences. To overcome this, social media data usage has been growing in various research studies, as users often feel more secure and share more honest thoughts in social media discussions; thus, Reddit data were utilized in this study to gather public opinions. Through the lens of technological frames, computer-aided textual analysis was employed on Reddit conversations to explore social media users' interpretations, assumptions, and expectations about how ethical AI is built, and which problems hinder building ethical AI.

This study reveals frames in social media conversations to showcase the latest perceptions from different viewpoints. More specifically, a corpus consisting of 998 unique Reddit post titles and their corresponding 16,611 comments extracted from 15 AI-related subreddits were identified by using topic modeling supported by human judgment for frame identification. The resulting findings offer important implications. While some of these ethical issues were also highlighted in prominent AI ethics literature, the findings indicated new insights such as humans' gender bias about the perceived gender of bots. The method employed, leveraging computer-aided textual analysis, may serve as an example for relevant future research focused on public opinion.

First, as a practical implication, the findings can enrich current public voice-centric explorations of AI ethics. Second, expected outcomes can demonstrate areas where misconceptions and unrealistic visions about AI ethics are widespread, which may trigger speculative fears or concerns. Consequently, researchers may be encouraged to focus more on the areas where public misconceptions are more common; educational programs may be arranged to reduce speculative fears or concerns or take necessary measures for real ethical risks. Academia, industry, and government communities may collaborate for research and policy arrangements in those areas, ensuring that measures should be taken to address problems pointed out by the public. Also, these findings could help design suitable interfaces that allow proper human-AI task coordination and collaboration and deploy innovative solutions for existing or anticipated ethical problems.