**Executive Summary**

The emerging paradigm of cloud computing (CC) faces significant security risks that adversely impact its various stakeholders, driven by widespread deployment and diverse service models which make guaranteeing privacy and security difficult. Security is considered a high priority, yet approaches investigated by researchers have historically been directed towards a single stakeholder's perspective or a specific service offered through the cloud, failing to address the complexity introduced when cloud adopters obtain nested services from different providers. Furthermore, laws and regulations diverging across industries and locations make a unified process to secure the CC model harder to achieve. To address these challenges, this paper presents a unique, stakeholder-oriented taxonomical approach designed to determine security and privacy issues pertinent to various CC models based on the nature of interaction and the specific service and deployment model utilized.

This taxonomy structurally enables the comprehension of all the various CC model components and their security aspects, aiming to provide stakeholders with a comprehensive list of security and privacy attributes associated with their issues. The process relies on the stakeholder level as the most important classifying factor, stating the scenario of the interaction. Based on the choices made in the first three levels of the taxonomy, a scenario is established, leading to a list of possible security and privacy issues in level-3 and a corresponding list of security attributes, such as backup and encryption, in level-4. This approach reduces the stakeholders' efforts to identify pertinent issues in the different forms of CC services they use and provides opportunities to improve security and privacy in their interaction, allowing providers, for example, to understand the security requirements of their consumers.

The strength of this novel approach resides in its affinity to the stakeholders and its capability to comprehend different scenarios, promoting security and privacy and helping to refute fears surrounding the utilization of this emerging technology. Moreover, another beneficial utilization of this taxonomy is to enable stakeholders to learn the security concerns of other stakeholders by tracing their roles. As a work-in-progress, the authors intend to continue collecting security and privacy issues and their related attributes, with future plans focusing on examining the approach on popular and diverse stakeholders such as cloud service providers, brokers, and commercial service auditors.